we begin with some developing news Hamas
says it has released two American
hostages for what it calls humanitarian
reasons the mother and daughter were
among around 200 captives abducted by
Hamas during its Terror attacks in
Israel on October 7th the Israeli Prime
Minister's office says the freed
hostages are being taken to a military
base they've been named as Judith and
Natalie
ranan and we can now bring in journalist
Sami so he joins us from Jerusalem Sami
what more can you tell us about the
hostages who've been
released yeah well Judith and her
daughter Natalie they're from suburb
outside Chicago and they were visiting
family in nalo which is adjacent to the
Gaza Strip they have relatives in in
that area and they were abducted by
Hamas um what we know is that probably
Judith has some medical issue and Hamas
they say that they released the two of
them for humanitarian uh reasons uh the
two of them have crossed uh to the
crossed the border into Israel um they
have been taken to a military base and
from there they're going to be taken uh
to a military location inside Israel
where they're going toet meet their
relatives this evening there's going to
be a meeting between the two and their
relatives and this was also released
from the Israeli Prime Minister's office
and what do we know about the welfare of
the hostages who are still being held by
Hamas Israel says most of them are
alive now well we don't know much uh we
know that they're held both by Hamas and
also the Islamic Jihad at the time said
that they're holding some uh 30
hostages um we know that there's one
video that was released of a a a
young woman that is held the hostage in
in Gaza and that was released during the
week so so Hamas has been trying to show
that they are capable of taking care of
these
hostages but also they're giving out the
message that if Israel is continuing uh
with their with bombing the Gans of
strip they're putting them in in danger
uh we know that Qatar is involved in in
these talks and they're um the ones who
are have been most active in the channel
to release those held captive in the
Gaza Strip yeah Kar of course with um
very strong ties to Hamas what is the
Israeli government's outlook on security
during the release of the rest of the
hostages 200 of them at least can they
bring them back without some kind of a
deal with
Hamas yeah well the the prime minister's
office today released a statement and
and they said that the government is
prioritizing the release of those has
held the hostage in the Gaza Strip at
the same time they say they want to wage
a a military round campaign inside the
Gaza Strip H today we've heard
assessments that this campaign is going
to last for months uh many months H this
means that those who are held inside the
Gaza Strip could be in in danger and for
sure uh there is a a a problem here
because on on the one hand the
government is saying that they want to
release them on the other hand they're
saying that they want to exterminate
Hamas they want to eradicate Hamas they
want to destroy the military
capabilities of Hamas and they want to
launch a ground offensive against Hamas
in the Gaza Strip now how will the
Israeli government be able to both
release prisoners and wage this campaign
this is the big
question that's the big question indeed
that was journalist samiul in Jerusalem
thanks